Large Language Models: A Survey
Large Language Models (LLMs) have drawn a
lot of attention due to their strong performance on a wide
range of natural language tasks, since the release of ChatGPT
in November 2022. LLMs’ ability of general-purpose language
understanding and generation is acquired by training billions of
model’s parameters on massive amounts of text data, as predicted
by scaling laws [1], [2]. The research area of LLMs, while very
recent, is evolving rapidly in many different ways. In this paper,
we review some of the most prominent LLMs, including three
popular LLM families (GPT, LLaMA, PaLM), and discuss their
characteristics, contributions and limitations. We also give an
overview of techniques developed to build, and augment LLMs.
We then survey popular datasets prepared for LLM training,
fine-tuning, and evaluation, review widely used LLM evaluation
metrics, and compare the performance of several popular LLMs
on a set of representative benchmarks. Finally, we conclude
the paper by discussing open challenges and future research
directions.

Attention Is All You Need
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or
convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best
performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention
mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer,
based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions
entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to
be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly
less time to train. Our model achieves 28.4 BLEU on the WMT 2014 English-
to-German translation task, improving over the existing best results, including
ensembles, by over 2 BLEU. On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task,
our model establishes a new single-model state-of-the-art BLEU score of 41.8 after
training for 3.5 days on eight GPUs, a small fraction of the training costs of the
best models from the literature. We show that the Transformer generalizes well to
other tasks by applying it successfully to English constituency parsing both with
large and limited training data.